Title: Now, about this new Star Trek movie...
Date: 2009-05-23 14:58
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Movies
Slug: now-about-this-new-star-trek-movie

So I need to come clean. I never really liked Star Trek. Not the
original Shatner one (TOS apparently), not Next Generation (TNG), not
the dreadful Voyager (V. No wait, I liked V). I've seen quite a lot of
them, as a result of being 33 and growing up in Britain. I've got a
decent memory too, and that didn't help.

Don't misunderstand me, this isn't a bad film. It's a perfectly passable
sci-fi blockbusting Hollywood movie. Lots of bangs and crashes, and
swooping camera shots, all populated with some decent visual effects.
Nothing that made me gasp, mind you, but perfectly serviceable. The
acting isn't horrible, and there are some horribly cheesy script
moments. None of this makes it a bad movie though. There's plenty for
the non-Star Trek fan to enjoy.

There's plenty for the Star Trek fan to enjoy too. That's where the film
lost me. There are so many knowing winks, so many knowing moments that
try to flatter the audience, from the first anonymous "red shirt"
casualty, through Karl Urban's bizarre Dr. McCoy impression, to Kirk in
bed with a green woman. The Trekkies, or Trekkers, or whatever their
preferred name is, were always going to be front and centre for the
filmmakers but the constant references bugged me. It's a Star Trek film,
I get it, now enough with the nudges and nods!

In summary, a perfectly serviceable scifi/action summer blockbuster.
**6/10**, and I preferred Independence Day, although that might be
because of Jeff Goldblum. Of course, I'm sure I'm wrong, since I'm
swimming against the tide with this one. Watch it on DVD, I can't say it
was worth my trip to the cinema.
