Title: . . . but maybe not as far as I thought
Date: 2009-06-26 15:51
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Music, Serious, Social Media
Slug: but-maybe-not-as-far-as-i-thought

To follow on from my [previous post][1], I'm a lot cheerier today. I
stayed up quite late last night, watching various social media sites,
listening to the radio, and watching rolling news.

Seeing things unfold, particularly on Twitter, was very interesting. TV
news really struggled to cover the event, since it was not strictly a
"serious" happening. These rolling channels are usually able to fill
time between the (usually sparse) nuggets of actually news by consulting
various talking heads, who they normally characterise as "experts".

The problem was, "experts" on this particular topic comprised some
~~sycophantic~~ dedicated ~~nutters~~ hardcore fans, and the
relentlessly self-publicising Uri Geller. Eventually we all agreed the
man was dead, and then began to eulogise about his "musical genius".
This seemed to be a point not even up for discussion. Now we were
cutting to shots of crowds gathering, being talked at by the likes of Al
Sharpton.

Meanwhile, over on Twitter, most people were scrabbling around for
jokes. Of course, it may have looked this way because of the people I
choose to follow. There was the odd post about how sad it was, but even
that was more than I expected to see. My worst fears were becoming
realised. Public mourning was about to begin.

At this point, I felt a bit weird. I didn't care about him dying. I
wouldn't wish anyone dead, and obviously he left children behind (I mean
his children, don't try to make a joke there!) but I wasn't bothered
either way. People die every day. It's just something we have to come to
terms with. The traditional media coverage was leaving me out. Again.

Then I went to bed, woke up, went to work. Started to talking to people
I work with. Interacting with some of my real-life friends via Facebook.
Turns out, an awful lot of people feel like me. His death isn't a big
deal. This isn't about his odd lifestyle choices, his multi-million
dollar settlement of a child abuse case, and his plastic surgery, this
is about a stranger dying. Millions of them do that every day. Just
because he was famous shouldn't mean you're any more sad.

Look, if his death has upset you, I'm sorry. This isn't about attacking
you or your feelings. This is about the media not representing the views
of what I feel is probably the majority. It's not "good copy" (whatever
that means) but it's the truth. Stop wallowing, report his death as a
news story rather than a soap opera, and move on.

Right, I now promise not to say any more on the subject. Unless I do.

  [1]: http://blog.dreamshake.net/2009/06/once-again-im-out-of-step/
