Title: Class? I'm not sure I get it.
Date: 2009-07-10 00:04
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Serious
Slug: class-im-not-sure-i-get-it

So, I was exchanging some bantersome online messages with a friend of
mine, and she (indirectly) called me middle class. Obviously, this is
the first thing I thought of:

I have to admit to being a bit upset to be described that way. Maybe
"upset" is the wrong word. I was interested that I paused for thought
when that phrase was used. Let's be honest, I work in IT, live in a nice
part of London, I have a *blog* for heaven's sake! Of course I'm middle
class. Am I?

Now, there have been earnest TV documentaries on this subject (and that
one with John Prescott, which just seemed to be intentionally (from a
production perspective)/unintentionally (from Two Jags perspective)
hilarious. It would be a bit disingenuous of me to proclaim that we live
in a classless society. Surely class is about pre-judging someone, and
that still continues today, as I'm sure it always will.

Maybe the answer really lies elsewhere. I'd suggest that the usual
indicators of class would be family background, education, and
employment. Whilst family background remains the same, further/higher
education has higher percentage participation than ever, and the
economic/industrial realignment of the country means that a lot more of
us work in an office than in an industrial/physical/practical job. Maybe
class is still there, we just don't quite know what the deciding factors
are any more? Or maybe we do, but we don't feel able to articulate them.
I'm thoroughly confused on the whole issue.

*PS You might think that this post only exists as an excuse to post that
video clip. I couldn't possibly comment.*
