Title: Looking back on #amazonfail, from a different perspective
Date: 2009-05-09 22:10
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Serious, Social Media
Slug: looking-back-on-amazonfail-from-a-different-perspective

So, via the medium to end all media (Twitter, in case you didn't know) I
read [this blog
entry](http://johnaugust.com/archives/2009/looking-back-on-amazonfail)
today, via [@Glinner](http://twitter.com/Glinner). As a slightly
implicated person (I mostly questioned how the situation had happened,
and made jokes about being subverted by
[@stephenfry](http://twitter.com/stephenfry) and his books) I don't feel
embarrassed about my participation in the hashtag storm.

Whilst some people questioned and waited, and others jumped in with both
feet, the facts remain thus. A large number of books from a particular
genre were effectively removed from plain sight on Amazon's website.

Firstly, as cited in [@johnaugust](http://twitter.com/johnaugust)'s blog
entry, even placing a large number of the affected titles in one genre
is dubious. That's not the road I want to go down though. If Amazon does
a poor job of grouping its titles, less potential buyers will view the
appropriate books, and sales will fall. Their problem, and their choice
whether to address it or not.

In my mind,two groups are to blame for what happened that fateful
\#amazonfail weekend. Them and us.

\#\#\# Them  
Regardless of what products were affected, the fact that Amazon's
systems allowed a single employee, operating in a single country
capacity, to influence global listings is poor. Imagine that a less
motivated, engaged, and internet-literate group of authors were
detrimentally affected. How long might the error have taken to come to
light? Doubtless sales would have fallen, and that's a measurable
impact, to both authors and vendor. A single person's mistake far too
easily affected "the bottom line". Amazon is a huge source of online
sales, particular to "niche" authors, and I use the word with no
disrespect. Which brings me to us...

\#\#\# Us  
We're as much to blame as Amazon. Sure, their systems are flawed, and
large changes can (apparently) happen to their multiple websites by
accident, but on one level, that's their problem. The reason that their
cock-up has such an impact on us is because we've chosen to put them in
their dominant market position. Of course, there are online alternatives
for buying books (or garden furniture, or shoes, or... the list goes on)
but because Amazon are always competitive on price, we've flocked to
them, and ceded a good deal of control of the market to the seller, not
the buyer. Now, I could bemoan the demise of the net book agreement, or
the fact that we don't support local independent bookshops, but I won't.
Yes, in the UK, both of those things have made the situation worse, but
there's something called a "credit crunch" going on, so perhaps all of
us should be taking advantage of the economies of scale that massive
online stores provide.

And that's the point really. All of us (and I'm chief among the
culprits) who buy books from Amazon have put them in the position
they're in today. I have easy access to lots of books that I might not
have ever come across, thanks to Jeff Bezos' company and vision. That
doesn't mean that we shouldn't police the way they present products to
us. As a de-facto monopoly, if we don't, no one will.

There was no anti-gay, anti-whatever conspiracy, just human error, and a
crappy computer system. This still meant books went missing, and we
couldn't see all the products we should have been able to.

Even if it was for the wrong reasons, \#amazonfail highlighted a glitch
with the largest bookseller in the world, and caused them (I'm
speculating here) to investigate and resolve the issue far quicker than
might otherwise have happened. Can that be anything other than a good
thing?
