Title: Pink Floyd, Radiohead, Blur, Lily Allen and the record companies; they're all wrong
Date: 2009-09-16 14:23
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Music, Serious
Slug: pink-floyd-radiohead-blur-lily-allen-and-the-record-companies-theyre-all-wrong

It's a murky pool to dive into, this P2P media sharing discussion. I
remember Napster coming into being whilst I was at university, and being
voraciously used by a lot of my friends (for some reason I was less
keen, and I'm sure it wasn't a sense of propriety) including one who has
gone on to carve out a successful career in the music industry. That's
roughly a decade ago, and the issue is still not resolved. Sure, we can
now legally and easily buy music online, and boy that took long enough,
but the vast majority of music downloading online is unpaid for, and
illegal. There are plenty of statistics flying about, most of which are
(I believe) nonsense, or at least very exaggerated, although the really
important ones (sales) are incontrovertibly heading in the wrong
direction.

The record companies have acted as one might expect a shop to react upon
discovering the concept of shoplifting. They're horrified, they want to
do whatever they can to stop it, and are prepared to use heavy tactics
to get their way. As large corporate entities, they have behaved exactly
as we would have expected. And as aforementioned entities, they haven't
got it right first time.

Enter the FAC, comprising a number of established, successful music
acts, making a range of points about file sharing. Their point seems to
roughly be "all publicity is good publicity", and cite increased concert
ticket sales, merchandise and even album sales as side effects of having
music downloaded. Equally they believe that cutting off a person's
internet connection as a "punishment" is a draconian overreaction.

Some days after this, another well-known, successful artist has entered
the fray. Famous (some might say infamous) for her forthright nature,
Ms. Allen makes the point that it's all very well to take the FAC
perspective if you're in Radiohead, since you're alright Jack. She also,
quite rightly, asserts that the digital copying taking place today is
not analogous to the home-taping of yesteryear. It was reading her blog
on the subject that made me think.

They're all wrong. And they're all right. Allow me to explain; the
record companies are right that if record sales/revenue decline, then
there is not only less profit for them (their concern), there is also
less budget for A&R to discover new talent (our concern). The FAC are
right that P2P file sharing provides the oxygen of publicity, and also
undoubtedly drives secondary sales. Lily Allen is right, perfect digital
copies are far, far removed from the radio taping and tape copies of
other tapes/CDs. The quality is excellent. She's also right that new
artists won't reap the benefits of P2P that established ones do. All
very valid points.

Thing is, they're all short-sighted. Technology has consistently driven
the recorded music industry, and it will continue to do so. Let's take a
walk through history. Easy home taping was probably the first great
threat to the music industry. They were worried that people making
copies wouldn't spend money. Well, taping off the radio certainly wasn't
a huge threat, since the DJs talking over intros and outros was always
going to be annoying. Taping other tapes was more of a threat. Sure,
there was a quality drop-off, but it wasn't massive. Indeed, although
the copying process was not as easy as today's digital environment, it
wasn't too much of a chore at the time. The music industry was dying.
Oh, wait. Here are cheap(ish) CD players, with instant access to
specific tracks, and better quality than tapes. They don't wear out
(well, maybe) like tapes either. Music industry rejoice, we now prefer
to buy CDs than copy with tape if we can. It's not all going to die
after all.

Here's the CD burner now though. It's relatively easy to get an exact
copy of a CD now. Still, the burners started out quite expensive, as did
the discs, and there was always the chance that the odd disc wouldn't
burn properly. Add in the requirement for a capable computer, still not
ubiquitous at this point, and we'd still prefer to just buy the CD.
Getting closer though.

Next, increased bandwidth and computing power. We can convert CDs into
smaller, digital files that can be played on a computer, and that are
just small enough to share online. They can still take a while to
download though, and finding them isn't that easy. Between friends is
probably the most common sharing mechanism. At this point, the music
industry should have stepped in, and started selling cheap digital
copies of music. The nascent P2P software would have had less take up
with the man on the street, as the convenience factor of buying the
'original' would have won out. Missed opportunity.

Particularly as the iPod is now here. Yes there were other MP3 players
before it, but with an easy to use interface and software, and great
marketing, the mobile digital audio market took off. Getting music onto
them required a (slowish) conversion of a CD though. Or an illegal
download. Which was also free. Guess which one won out?

Bandwidth is still increasing, so the downloading option is now faster,
and the P2P software is much more sophisticated. It's easier to find an
illegal copy of something obscure than to actually buy it in the shop.
Also, we can get a quality of digital download which (for most people)
renders the additional quality of the CD an unnecessary expense.

We're coming up towards the present day now. Digital downloads are
available, but they are DRM-laden, meaning that they're not easy to
share, but equally not that easy to use on your multiple
computers/mobile music players/cars/home sound systems. They also
\*\*still\*\* don't have the breadth of music that CDs (and therefore
illegal downloads) have. Some honest/lazy people use these download
services, but most don't bother. Illegality has become the norm for
acquiring music now. Because it was allowed to proliferate, most users
don't even feel that they're doing anything wrong.

Streaming services exist, but they're not compatible across all
computing platforms, require a monthly subscription, and aren't
effective with mobile players (i.e. they're not iPod compatible, the
\*de facto\* standard). Much breast beating in the music industry. Sales
are now collapsing, and they realise that they've missed the boat.
Unfortunately, their response is to try to sink the boat, rather than
charter another one to catch up.

And we're at the present at last. CDs are regularly leaked online, in
high quality versions, before the CDs are commercially available. The
illegal channel has won, on speed, convenience and time to market.
Spotify arrives, working on all (with some provisos) platforms, and
offers free streaming with advertising inserted, essentially mirroring
the commercial radio model. Doubts are expressed that this can generate
enough revenue to sustain their business model, and therefore the music
industry.

Now I'm going to stop talking about what has happened, and get onto what
I think will happen. The key is Spotify's mobile service. They've
released a streaming version, that requires a subscription, not
advertising. It has good (but not yet good enough) coverage of music and
works well. This is where I think technology, as it has (and could have)
in the past, will help. People will take the path of least resistance in
most matters, and music consumption is one such area. Once streaming on
a phone/computer is easier than downloading, and quicker, they'll start
to be interested. If the subscription rate is equitable, they'd rather
pay it to avoid the hassle of illegal downloading. Technology has to
catch up, and by this I mean both the phone/player device and sufficient
mobile bandwidth for there to be no irritating drop-outs. We're not
there yet, but it won't be long. Look at the pace of progress.

All the industry needs to do is stop being defensive, and put itself at
the cutting edge of the new developments. They dropped the ball 10 years
ago, when they were woefully late with legal downloads. We can only
hope, for the sake of us hearing good music, that they get with the
programme this time.

\#\#\#ADDENDUM

I'm aware that some people feel that the "democratising nature of the
web" will just cut the record companies out of the loop, and put music
fans directly in contact with the artists. I've got news for you; the
web doesn't democratise shit. Bandwidth costs, servers cost, musical
equipment/instruments cost, rent costs, food costs. We have to pay for
our music. It's all about how. The independent model will introduce too
many hassles for the consumer for it to ever take off.

Of course, I could be wrong. I've been wrong before.
