Title: "The science is settled" - Paul Staines misses the point
Date: 2011-09-23 16:18
Author: Paul Bailey
Slug: the-science-is-settled-paul-staines-misses-th

In [this blog entry][1], Paul Staines tries to use the unexpected
experimental data from CERN to support the climate change deniers'
views, and discredit those that argue against them. I think he is flat
out wrong.

A phrase such as “the science is settled” does not mean, and has never
meant, that science has some sort of final answer. What it actually
means is that there is broadly accepted theory which best explains the
available experimental data.

If and when results arrive that contradict such a theory, it is
reassessed, others try to reproduce the differing results, and science
moves forward.

Without that additional evidence, any new or differing theory is just a
guess. Nothing more, nothing less. There’s nothing wrong with guesses.
They’re at the heart of scientific progress. It’s just that without
experimental data to validate them, they’re not science.

In actual fact, if evidence arrived to contradict the prevailing
scientific opinion on global warming, there’d be plenty of scientific
interest, and press coverage too. The press seem to enjoy showing that
“the scientists were wrong”, missing the point that this is how science
advances ALL THE TIME.

Of course, you may believe that we already have that evidence. In your
opinion, large numbers of scientists in the field are deliberately
choosing to ignore it. That’s your right, but it sounds awfully like a
conspiracy theory to me, and my life is too short to spend too much time
thinking about them.

  [1]: http://order-order.com/2011/09/23/science-is-never-settled/
