Title: "Too many twits makes a twat"
Date: 2009-08-10 17:23
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Geek, Serious, Social Media
Slug: too-many-twits-makes-a-twat

Well, you can't move these days without reading, hearing or watching
something about Twitter. There have been some vitriolic responses to the
latest "craze", both in the press, and from individuals I've spoken to,
or read comments from.

Here's the thing; Twitter is a communication medium. It is as good or
bad as the people using it. One might as well bemoan the telephone, or
email, because they undermine letter writing.

I remember joining Twitter, just like I remember joining Facebook. I'm
almost always an "early adopter", which basically means I try stuff out
quite readily. Particularly when it's free. Facebook was useless when I
joined. I was too old, so none of my friends were on there. However, as
those friends joined, the utility of the site grew exponentially.

Suddenly, I got back in touch with people who I hadn't see for years. My
slightly nomadic years in the late 1990s meant that I lost touch with
people I wished I hadn't. A little bit like Friendsreunited, except I
didn't have to pay for this to be able to contact people, and it
broadened the range of people I could find.

Sure, there are people who have Facebook "friends" that they don't know
in real life, and it's perfectly possible to use the site in the same
manner as Myspace (a site I never got into using because it looked so
godawful I couldn't bear to look at it for more than 90 seconds). I
choose not to though. All my friends are real, and I use the "would I go
for a beer with them" rule to decide whether to accept a friend request.

Of course, Facebook can be described as a timewasting activity, and in
the first few months, reconnecting with old acquaintances, I did spend a
lot of time catching up with what they'd been doing in the time since
I'd seen them, looking at photos and generally marvelling at how little
most of them had aged. Now though, I find my Facebook use is around
10-15 minutes a day probably, certainly less time than I spend on
emails. It's no more of a waste of time than the people I keep in
contact with using it, and I don't consider my friends a timewasting
distraction.

Twitter was a different experience. Again, I joined the site relatively
early in its life, and spent very little time using it. Interaction
between users was somewhat limited, and if memory serves the @reply
shorthand which eventually became formalised wasn't in common usage. I
had a poke around, but who to follow? Most of the people I could see
were very techie (no bad thing, but not something I needed more of) and
US-based (which put them in an inconvenient time zone to interact with).

As with Facebook though, more people started using Twitter, and its
utility went up drastically. Following someone on Twitter is a rather
"loose" connection, as (a) you don't really have much information about
them, in contrast to Facebook, and (b) it's intrinsically one way, again
unlike Facebook.

Now etiquette (Tweetiquette?) apparently suggests that if someone
follows you, then you should follow them back. I think this is nonsense.
My Twitter experience is defined by my timeline of tweets, and I like to
choose who writes them. If I follow everyone who follows me, they are
essentially deciding it for me. Also, and more importantly, this "follow
back" mentality encourages the spamming/advertising profiles, who can
automate following thousands of people, and have their banal tweets read
by everyone polite enough to follow them back.

Now, whilst a lot of my real life friends are on Facebook, not so many
of them are on Twitter. And of those few, not too many are that active.
That's actually one of Twitter's biggest problems, and one I'll return
to later. Still enough of them are that I've arrange nights out via the
service, and caught up with various details about social gatherings. So
I do follow a lot of people I haven't met in person. I suspect a lot of
new Twitterers just follow the standard few famous people (@Wossy,
@stephenfry and so on), and some of them even get annoyed when their
"Hello Stephen!" tweets don't elicit an immediate response. This isn't
email people!

However, there are plenty of interesting people out there, famous or
otherwise. Whatever field you happen to be interested in, there are
numerous twitterers you can follow to stay up to speed. Personally, I
follow a combination of funny people, atheist/humanist/scientist types,
and sports-related bods. So what I get out of Twitter is laughs, staying
up to date with news/events, and the odd sporting scoop. There are lots
of tweeps willing to converse with you, even "celebrities", if that's
your bag. I don't think I follow a single person who just posts mundane
details about their day. Which leads me on to my final point.

Twitter as a concept doesn't seem to be easy to explain or understand.
The "I don't care whether someone is doing their shopping" is one
oft-advanced criticism of Twitter. The mainstream press seem very
suspicious of it in particular. Probably in the same way newspapers were
suspicious of the wireless, there's a feeling of being undermined. The
very celebrities that are misquoted and portrayed in a less than
flattering light now no longer are in thrall to the regular media. They
can readily communicate their point of view on something directly to
their fans, without the (possible) manipulation of an interviewer or
sub-editor. The same newpapers that happily mock the site as a pointless
waste of time also seem to be directly sourcing quotes from people's
Twitter accounts for their articles. Yes, it's such a childish
diversion, you're using it to provide scoops and comments.

Twitter, as with all social networking sites, is only as good as the
people on it, and how you interact with them. Find it boring? That's
either because you haven't found the best of using it for you yet, or
maybe you're a bit boring yourself. Email is dull if all you do is read
and write boring emails.

Why don't you give it a go? You might find some interesting things to
do, engaging people to interact with, and a whole new aspect to online
communication.
