Title: Why The Wire is not good television
Date: 2009-07-23 00:42
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: TV
Slug: why-the-wire-is-not-good-television

Ah-ha. Got you. Anyone that's had the misfortune of having me hold forth
on this HBO programme will know I'm quite a fan. You might even have
described me as evangelical. I'm not kidding though, it isn't good
television.

For years, The Wire was the best television show you hadn't seen. When
it did hit the airwaves in the UK it was on little-watched satellite
channel F/X. This meant that the few people who did see it here had
~~downloaded it~~ bought the DVD box sets. Of course, like any small
group of fans, there was a certain cachet to being in the know.

Still, there was certainly a lot of word-of-mouth publicity, and the
DVDs started to sell well. By the time the fifth and final season was
airing in the US, publicity had gone into overdrive, with visits from
David Simon (the show's co-creator) and rave writeups in broadsheet
newspapers. The Wire had definitely arrived. Of course the more people
that saw it, the more people there were that \*didn't\* like it. Stands
to reason, and their opinion was absolutely valid. It didn't coincide
with mine though.

Then the BBC decided to buy it. And that's when I started to have
problems with it. The first season is notoriously slow-starting, in fact
it took two or three false starts before I got hooked. That's a bad foot
to get off on, since we have literally hundreds of channels to choose
from these days. 3-4 hours is a lot of TV watching time to invest in a
programme before it gets interesting for you. Word-of-mouth is the best
form of advertising though, so perhaps we can forgive it this flaw.

The "fatal" flaw lies in scheduling the show. The BBC, with very little
choice given that they had 50 one hour episodes to screen, opted to show
them on consecutive weekday evenings. Not a problem you might think.
Well, it is, when it takes ten weeks to show the lot, since an hour is a
terribly long time to schedule every day. So it has to be on at an
unsociable time. Like finishing after midnight. Add in a social life, or
a bad memory, or (shock horror!) no Sky Plus, and you're guaranteed to
miss some episodes.

It's not a forgiving series for that sin. There are lots of threads, and
characters that are introduced several seasons before they become
significant. You really need to see everything, and remember what's
going on. That's one of the reasons, along with its slow pacing, that a
weekly slot isn't ideal for it.

Oh, did I mention that the BBC didn't obtain rights to put it on
iPlayer? Well, they didn't. Our friends in the scheduling department
tried their hardest, putting on a weekly, very late, super long omnibus.
Frankly, if you forgot to record the episode you missed, you'd have to
be very patient to avoid the following ones and wait for the weekend to
record them all the ones you'd missed. Oh, then you'd frantically have
to watch them on Sunday before the whole shebang started up again on
Monday.

Let's be honest, The Wire could contain the secret of eternal life, and
99% of us aren't going to go through that rigmarole to watch what is, in
the end, JUST A TELEVISION PROGRAMME.

So there you have it. I genuinely think HBO's finest is just about
untransmittable and unwatchable via the aerial on your roof. That's why
it never got great ratings in the USA, despite critical acclaim. If HBO
wasn't a subscription model cable channel, I doubt it even gets a second
season. The only way to watch it is on DVD (or obtained illegally via
your computer). You need to have all the episodes available, for you to
watch at your own pace. I know this applies to quite a few shows, like
24 for example, but that still sort of works on a weekly basis, with its
hourly twist to make you tune in next week.

So how many programmes will get made, straight to DVD, with 50 one hour
episodes? Exactly. It needs to be on TV first. And you can't show it
effectively on that platform. So it's not good television.

I do love it though.
