Title: Why I abhor adults reading Harry Potter books
Date: 2004-11-18 10:08
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Old
Slug: why-i-abhor-adults-reading-harry-potter-books

*Here's an article about the small-minded simpletons that read Harry
Potter books.*

*Original URL: [http://www.countercurrents.org/arts-byatt110703.htm][1]*

**Harry Potter And The Childish Adult**

**By A.S. Byatt**

New York Times  
11 July, 2003

What is the secret of the explosive and worldwide success of the Harry
Potter books? Why do they satisfy children and — a much harder question
— why do so many adults read them? I think part of the answer to the
first question is that they are written from inside a child's-eye view,
with a sure instinct for childish psychology. But then how do we answer
the second question? Surely one precludes the other.

The easy question first. Freud described what he called the "family
romance," in which a young child, dissatisfied with its ordinary home
and parents, invents a fairy tale in which it is secretly of noble
origin, and may even be marked out as a hero who is destined to save the
world. In J. K. Rowling's books, Harry is the orphaned child of wizards
who were murdered trying to save his life. He lives, for unconvincingly
explained reasons, with his aunt and uncle, the truly dreadful Dursleys,
who represent, I believe, his real "real" family, and are depicted with
a relentless, gleeful, overdone venom. The Dursleys are his true enemy.
When he arrives at wizarding school, he moves into a world where
everyone, good and evil, recognizes his importance, and tries either to
protect or destroy him.

The family romance is a latency-period fantasy, belonging to the drowsy
years between 7 and adolescence. In "Order of the Phoenix," Harry, now
15, is meant to be adolescent. He spends a lot of the book becoming
excessively angry with his protectors and tormentors alike. He discovers
that his late (and "real") father was not a perfect magical role model,
but someone who went in for fits of nasty playground bullying. He also
discovers that his mind is linked to the evil Lord Voldemort, thereby
making him responsible in some measure for acts of violence his nemesis
commits.

In psychoanalytic terms, having projected his childish rage onto the
caricature Dursleys, and retained his innocent goodness, Harry now
experiences that rage as capable of spilling outward, imperiling his
friends. But does this mean Harry is growing up? Not really. The
perspective is still child's-eye. There are no insights that reflect
someone on the verge of adulthood. Harry's first date with a female
wizard is unbelievably limp, filled with an 8-year-old's conversational
maneuvers.

Auden and Tolkien wrote about the skills of inventing "secondary
worlds." Ms. Rowling's world is a secondary secondary world, made up of
intelligently patchworked derivative motifs from all sorts of children's
literature — from the jolly hockey-sticks school story to Roald Dahl,
from "Star Wars" to Diana Wynne Jones and Susan Cooper. Toni Morrison
pointed out that clichés endure because they represent truths.
Derivative narrative clichés work with children because they are
comfortingly recognizable and immediately available to the child's own
power of fantasizing.

The important thing about this particular secondary world is that it is
symbiotic with the real modern world. Magic, in myth and fairy tales, is
about contacts with the inhuman — trees and creatures, unseen forces.
Most fairy story writers hate and fear machines. Ms. Rowling's wizards
shun them and use magic instead, but their world is a caricature of the
real world and has trains, hospitals, newspapers and competitive sport.
Much of the real evil in the later books is caused by newspaper gossip
columnists who make Harry into a dubious celebrity, which is the modern
word for the chosen hero. Most of the rest of the evil (apart from
Voldemort) is caused by bureaucratic interference in educational
affairs.

Ms. Rowling's magic world has no place for the numinous. It is written
for people whose imaginative lives are confined to TV cartoons, and the
exaggerated (more exciting, not threatening) mirror-worlds of soaps,
reality TV and celebrity gossip. Its values, and everything in it, are,
as Gatsby said of his own world when the light had gone out of his
dream, "only personal." Nobody is trying to save or destroy anything
beyond Harry Potter and his friends and family.

So, yes, the attraction for children can be explained by the powerful
working of the fantasy of escape and empowerment, combined with the fact
that the stories are comfortable, funny, just frightening enough.

They comfort against childhood fears as Georgette Heyer once comforted
us against the truths of the relations between men and women, her
detective stories domesticating and blanket-wrapping death. These are
good books of their kind. But why would grown-up men and women become
obsessed by jokey latency fantasies?

Comfort, I think, is part of the reason. Childhood reading remains
potent for most of us. In a recent BBC survey of the top 100 "best
reads," more than a quarter were children's books. We like to regress. I
know that part of the reason I read Tolkien when I'm ill is that there
is an almost total absence of sexuality in his world, which is restful.

But in the case of the great children's writers of the recent past,
there was a compensating seriousness. There was — and is — a real sense
of mystery, powerful forces, dangerous creatures in dark forests. Susan
Cooper's teenage wizard discovers his magic powers and discovers
simultaneously that he is in a cosmic battle between good and evil
forces. Every bush and cloud glitters with secret significance. Alan
Garner peoples real landscapes with malign, inhuman elvish beings that
hunt humans.

Reading writers like these, we feel we are being put back in touch with
earlier parts of our culture, when supernatural and inhuman creatures —
from whom we thought we learned our sense of good and evil — inhabited a
world we did not feel we controlled. If we regress, we regress to a lost
sense of significance we mourn for. Ursula K. Le Guin's wizards inhabit
an anthropologically coherent world where magic really does act as a
force. Ms. Rowling's magic wood has nothing in common with these lost
worlds. It is small, and on the school grounds, and dangerous only
because she says it is.

In this regard, it is magic for our time. Ms. Rowling, I think, speaks
to an adult generation that hasn't known, and doesn't care about,
mystery. They are inhabitants of urban jungles, not of the real wild.
They don't have the skills to tell ersatz magic from the real thing, for
as children they daily invested the ersatz with what imagination they
had.

Similarly, some of Ms. Rowling's adult readers are simply reverting to
the child they were when they read the Billy Bunter books, or invested
Enid Blyton's pasteboard kids with their own childish desires and hopes.
A surprising number of people — including many students of literature —
will tell you they haven't really lived in a book since they were
children. Sadly, being taught literature often destroys the life of the
books. But in the days before dumbing down and cultural studies no one
reviewed Enid Blyton or Georgette Heyer — as they do not now review the
great Terry Pratchett, whose wit is metaphysical, who creates an
energetic and lively secondary world, who has a multifarious genius for
strong parody as opposed to derivative manipulation of past motifs, who
deals with death with startling originality. Who writes amazing
sentences.

It is the substitution of celebrity for heroism that has fed this
phenomenon. And it is the leveling effect of cultural studies, which are
as interested in hype and popularity as they are in literary merit,
which they don't really believe exists. It's fine to compare the Brontës
with bodice-rippers. It's become respectable to read and discuss what
Roland Barthes called "consumable" books. There is nothing wrong with
this, but it has little to do with the shiver of awe we feel looking
through Keats's "magic casements, opening on the foam/Of perilous seas,
in faery lands forlorn."

(A.S. Byatt is an author, most recently, of the novel "A Whistling
Woman.")

  [1]: http://web.archive.org/web/20041204223342/http://www.countercurrents.org/arts-byatt110703.htm
