Title: "Be excellent to each other"
Date: 2009-07-23 16:07
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Serious
Slug: be-excellent-to-each-other

Yes, I am the sort of fool who would extract my life's philosophy from a
[trashy, frothy Hollywood comedy][]. That doesn't make me wrong though.

I was given a moment's pause today by some [bad news][] ([another
tribute here][]). Someone I didn't know, and had met once, for the first
time on Monday, had died suddenly.

Now death is something I'm not unaccustomed too, like most of us, and
I've sadly had to deal with the tragic news of friends dying before
their time. I'm not a maudlin person though, and certainly not one given
to grieving at the drop of a hat (see Michael Jackson, Jade Goody, and
Diana Spencer). I did feel sad today though. You know why? Because Tina
was just one of those people that was (and I hate to use this word)
nice. I could tell that just from the few words we exchanged on Monday.

Now my "religious" beliefs are atheist, so I don't believe in heaven, or
an after-life. What I do believe is that it's pretty cool that a
person's demeanour was such that when they're gone, a stranger that met
them briefly is a bit upset. I think that's about as fitting a tribute
as anyone could have. Both Andrew and Richard's posts were lovely, and
also speak to the positive effect she had on people she came across,
whether virtually or in "real life".

I'm inspired to be a better, nicer, friendlier person to the people I
meet in daily life. I'd love to think that I could leave such an
uplifting impression with people as Tina so clearly did. What a great
legacy for her to leave behind. Rest in peace Tina.

Oh, and be excellent to each other.

  [trashy, frothy Hollywood comedy]: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096928/
  [bad news]: http://www.richardherring.com/warmingup/warmingup.php?id=2455
  [another tribute here]: http://www.wherediditallgoright.com/BLOG/2009/07/tina-wiseman.html
