Title: Edinburgh Flashtrip
Date: 2009-08-27 18:00
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Live stuff
Slug: edinburgh-flashtrip

So, I finally got to go The Fringe Sunday just gone, after an inital
aborted attempt to plan this stuff. After [Andrew Collins' extensive
post on his trip][], I'm ashamed to admit I can't go into anything like
as much detail, and I was only there for about 10 minutes.

I was flying up to Edinburgh on the 8am Gatwick flight, which meant I
needed to get a bus from my flat at roughly 5:45. Being the consumate
traveller, I prepared for this early rise by going out on the piss in
Hampstead of all places, then consuming two bottles of wine in the
cinema (Inglourious Basterds, less said the better) with my friend.
Through in some more beers afterwards and dinner, and I got home at
about 1am.

I deferred "packing" such as it was until the morning, and enjoyed 4
hours of alcohol-induced unconsciousness. Almost in a daze, I floated my
way to Gatwick, and suddenly found myself in the middle of Edinburgh.
Getting wet. A brief stroll around, a bite to eat, then it was time for
the final **Collings & Herrin** live podcast. I'd seen the guys do a
turn live in Brighton, so I knew what to expect. Apart from how
insufferably hot and humid it would be in there. Still, I throughly
enjoyed myself, and after saying hello to a street trader (who looked
remarkably like Andrew Collins), it was hotel check in time.

At this point, I have to confess that my plans of seeing a couple of
shows in the afternoon were destroyed by the climactic Ashes moments,
and the need for a power nap. Still, I deserved it. Sort of.

Fed and watered, and off to see **Chris Cox**'s *Mind Over Patter*. I
really enjoyed it, as did the rest of the audience. So often mentalism
is presented with a sort of gravitas that is meant to increase how
impressed we are. To be honest, that always makes it worse for me. Cox's
light touch with his presentation works really well with this type of
act. Even if he does look 12.

After that, it was a rapidish stroll across to the Pleasance Courtyard
to grab a swift alcoholic beverage, and get in the queue for **Tim
Key**, and his show *The Slutcracker*. I had planned to see him anyway,
but a friend recommended him very highly, and also insisted that I
should sit front and centre in the audience, hence the queuing bit.

Well, what a treat. Setting a slightly edgy atmosphere with his entrance
and quick change, the full show was captivated from start to finish.
Whilst I didn't get the dubious pleasure of being Key's beer coaster, I
did enjoy interacting with him a couple of times during the hour (at his
behest I hasten to add), and the delivery was masterful. Thoroughly
deserving of his nomination in the Eddies (and what a shit name that
is).

Just next door then (after picking up another one of those refreshing
beverages) to see the **Penny Dreadfuls** perform their new show *The
Never Man*. A deliciously silly comedy thriller set in the newly built
theme park on Beef Island, the threesome performed with a real gusto
that was just right for a late night show. Some of the fight scenes
certainly seemed to go beyond what was scripted, and a few (what
appeared to be) off-book lines and corpsing just added to a entertaining
show. The best way I can describe it is that I wanted to be performing
in it, it seemed to be such fun to do. Top work.

Apart from surprising a flyering Danielle Ward outside the show
("Karaoke Circus? No thanks, I'm already going"), I dashed off to my
hotel to grab my camera equipment. Next on the agenda was the
aforementioned KC, which was, as usual, bloody entertaining and
hilarious. I really enjoyed trying to take photos in between laughing,
singing along, cheering, and booing Dan Maier (in his Simon Cowell
role). Great lineup, great band, great evening.

[flickr]3855064429[/flickr]

[More photos here][], if you're interested. I was pretty happy with
them, given my accelerated lager consumption by this point in the
evening.

I staggered home, tired and happy, and had another alcohol-induced
period of unconsciousness for the second night running. Sadly, after
waking, computer issues (trying to put a couple of photos online) and
checking out (just really slow), I missed the midday show I wanted to
see. Still the sun was shining, so I went to take a few quick touristy
shots of Edinburgh, and grab some lunch.

As if by magic, I found myself in the Pleasance Courtyard again, in the
sun this time, taking in the atmosphere, and a number of flyers (of
course). One chap, [Sanderson Jones][], did a good enough job to
convince me to see his show in the afternoon, and my random quota was
therefore fulfilled. I just had time to squeeze it in to my itinerary.
Except I didn't really, and I ended up missing Pippa Evans. I actually
surprised myself by only mis-scheduling once. Go me.

First it was *Book Club*, hosted, as ever, by **Robin Ince**. Cracking
entertainment on the Free Fringe, and a most enjoyable hour. I wish I
could remember everyone who performed, because they were all funny, but
alas I have a poor short-term memory, and wasn't taking notes. I do
however remember Foz Foster and The Baron from Karaoke Circus turning
up, in full make up, to join in with the performance of the Crabs
Musical at the end. Absolutely bbrrrriiiiillllliiiiaaaannnnttttt!

Dashed off to see the aforementioned **Sanderson Jones**, whose show is
called *Another Heart Breaking But Ultimately Life-Affirming Show About
Death* (I love the dark humour, what can I say?). It was actually pretty
good, and worth seeing. Some of the material was a bit patchy, but his
delivery and interaction with the audience suggest that he's only going
to get better. Nice to see some personal stuff in there too, even if it
looked like it might genuinely be a little upsetting for him to deliver.

So back to stalking **Robin Ince**, as I went to see his new show,
*Robin Ince Vs The Moral Majority*. Ended up sitting right at the front,
and heckling by mistake (rather like Withnail and his holiday) although
it was all very good natured. It was a great show too, well observed and
delivered, with lots of laughs. I genuinely left thinking 'How is he not
on TV making millions, and someone with the same initials as Marilyn
Manson is?'. As ever, highly recommended.

Then an uphill sprint (literally) to get to **Danielle Ward**'s *Lies*.
Despite my lightening pace, I didn't arrive quite in time, and had the
ignominy of a late entrance. Still worse, there was a small audience, so
I couldn't sneak in. As it transpired, it didn't matter too much, as
Ward soon moved the audience around a bit in the shipping container we
appeared to be sat in, so she could face in one direction as she went
through the show. The audience which contained Martin White, Foz Foster
and The Baron from KC. Again! I swear that these guys were following me
around.

The show itself wasn't too dissimilar to the preview I'd seen, and
enjoyed, in London the previous month, when Danielle was on a double
bill with Richard Herring and Hitler Moustache. The difference being the
smaller audience and 3 weeks of performing in Edinburgh to lukeward
reviews. As I said earlier, I like my dark humour, and some awkward and
tense moments are not necessarily a bad thing (see Tim Key). The jokes
were quite wide-ranging, and on refreshingly different topics, and more
hit and missed, with me at least. Oh, and anyone show that plays out to
the Top Gun theme is alright by me! Nice shades too.

And so ended my flashtrip, with a slightly sad walk to the station to
catch the sleeper train back to London (very good incidentally). I'd had
a great time, hectic and amusing, and I didn't see anything that I
didn't like. I'd call that a successful trip.

Blimey 1364 words?! That's more than I thought.

  [Andrew Collins' extensive post on his trip]: http://www.wherediditallgoright.com/BLOG/2009/08/fringe-legs.html
  [More photos here]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/observationsandmachinations/sets/72157622139044604/show/
  [Sanderson Jones]: http://www.sandersonjones.com/
