Title: La dolce vita
Date: 2009-07-04 19:15
Author: Paul Bailey
Slug: la-dolce-vita

What a splendid day. Woke up feeling distinctly ordinary. Mostly as a
result of being too hot in bed, and hungover from a great night out,
which involved catching up with an old friend and seeing Blur in Hyde
Park.

Brewed some coffee, grilled some bacon, and already everything was
feeling right with the world. Toodled off to the South Bank to take some
pictures, then duck into BFI/NFT for some Scarface double bill action.
Took a couple of action photos of skateboardy types, then wandered
higher to try to get some "arty" shots. This sadly involved me dropping
the camera, and breaking my precious zoom lens. Oddly, I wasn't as upset
as I might have imagined. Annoyed, but calm. No one was commenting on my
[t-shirt](http://www.blueapplemusic.co.uk/busdetails/busREF01.html)
either, which I was sadly quite conscious of wearing, particularly given
the high tourist concentration in that bit of central London.

The original Scarface movie was great, and I came out to see I had a
text from a friend of mine, who fancied meeting up for a beer. Delighted
with the sunshine, and the film, and happy how un-upset I was about the
camera, I headed off to meet her. As I strolled along, I heard someone
exclaim "No no no", right before striding up to me. I was slightly
perturbed, until I realised it was a very charming French gentleman who
was just very keen to know where he could get a shirt like mine!
Atheists/humanists of the world unite! :)

I've just got home after a very enjoyable drink/chinwag, and I'm about
to order some sushi. Could life be any better?

All the best,

your enjoying-his-life-and-not-worrying correspondent.
