Title: What a week!
Date: 2009-11-06 16:58
Author: Paul Bailey
Tag: Live stuff
Slug: what-a-week

I've been busy.

### Monday

Went to see As It Occurs To Me. It was the fourth episode and a lot of
fun. I've been to every one so far, and I'm planning to go to the lot of
them. I think it's a good idea (a scripted topical radio-style show, but
released via podcast rather than broadcast) and if people don't support
it financially by going along to the recordings, it'll stop happening.
[Get your tickets here][], it's on every Monday at the Leicester Square
Theatre in that London. And I say that despite the (hopefully
tongue-in-cheek) mocking Richard Herring reserves for the people who go
every week!

### Tuesday

It was a benefit gig tonight, for Bletchley Park, called [Boffoonery][].
Great line up, with some stand up, some sketches, a demonstration of an
actual Enigma machine by Simon Singh, and a brilliant panel quiz show,
featuring Robin Ince, Johnny Ball, and the aforementioned Herring. Oh,
and the question master was Robert Llewellyn (Kryten from Red Dwarf).
Cracking entertainment in a good cause.

### Wednesday

This was a later one, going to see [Gonzales][] perform his Piano Talk
Show at the Pigalle Club. It was an eclectic evening, bit of virtuoso
piano playing, some random banter, some rapping, a guitar getting
smashed up and audience participation. Oh, and Jarvis Cocker got up for
a bit of a chat, and a couple of songs. Good stuff.

### Thursday

This was my night off, until I heard that [Helen Arney][] was performing
her Edinburgh show, 8 + ½ songs about love (and other myths),  in
Camden. I'd seen her do a turn at the Book Club I went to at the Fringe
this year, and was gutted I couldn't get to see her show at the time. I
was really pleased I went as it was very funny, and very sweet at the
same time. If you get the chance, go to see her. It's ace.

### Friday (tonight)

Off to Kings Place to see Charlie Brooker in conversation with Marina
Hyde to promote the launch of his book. Hopefully it's good, and I'm not
out too late. And then I get the weekend to recover. Or do I?

  [Get your tickets here]: http://www.leicestersquaretheatre.com/lqt/show/S1251303475/Richard+Herring%3A+As+It+Occurs+To+Me
  [Boffoonery]: http://www.boffoonery.com/index.html
  [Gonzales]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gonzales_%28musician%29
  [Helen Arney]: http://www.helenarney.com/
